Coolguyzone/feat/monitors guide (#17433)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/guides/alerts.mdx

---
title: Setting Up Alerts
sidebar_order: 25

> description: "Practical guidance on Alerts in Monitors & Alerts—routing to the right people while reducing noise and alert fatigue."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Practical guidance on Alerts -- routing to the right people while reducing noise and alert fatigue."
```

early_access: true
---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Include name="feature-available-for-user-group-early-adopter" />
```
EA alert

| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **[Sources](/product/new-monitors-and-alerts/alerts/#select-sources-and-environments)** | One or more [projects](/product/projects/) or **[Monitors](/product/new-monitors-and-alerts/monitors/)** whose issues this Alert evaluates |
| **[Triggers](/product/new-monitors-and-alerts/alerts/#set-triggers)**                   | Issue-state changes that must occur (for example issue created or assigned); multiple triggers combine with `ANY`                          |
| **[Filters](/product/new-monitors-and-alerts/alerts/#set-filters)**                     | Extra conditions—group as `ANY` or `ALL` to narrow which matching issues actually notify                                                   |
| **[Actions](/product/new-monitors-and-alerts/alerts/#add-actions)**                     | Where to notify or integrate (chat, email, on-call, issue trackers, webhooks—see [integrations](/organization/integrations/))              |

> Create and manage Alerts from [`sentry.io/monitors/alerts`](https://sentry.io/monitors/alerts). For UI walkthroughs and concepts, read **[Creating an Alert](/product/new-monitors-and-alerts/alerts/#creating-an-alert)**, [examples](/product/new-monitors-and-alerts/alerts/#some-examples-of-when-you-could-use-an-alert), and how **[Notifications](/product/new-monitors-and-alerts/alerts/#notifications)** relate to alert-driven vs general product notifications.

Reviewer: `(/product/new-monitors-and-alerts/alerts/#notifications)** ` <-- this section doesn't exist. I don't know if there is much of a need to call out Sentry Notifications, but you'd want to link to this if that's the intent: /product/notifications/

**Tip:** Pair Alerts with **[Monitors](/product/new-monitors-and-alerts/monitors/)** so issues are opened only when something actually crosses your thresholds—then Alerts decide who hears about those issues.

## Getting More Signal With Less Noise

The most common mistake is alerting too much. Every additional notification that doesn't require action trains your team to ignore alerts.

### Don't Alert on Every State Change

Your first instinct might be to notify whenever an issue changes state: new issues, regressions, escalations, and so on. In practice, that generates too many notifications. Regressions are especially common because Sentry auto-resolves issues after 14 days of silence, so many issues resurface repeatedly.

> Instead, use the [**For Review** tab](/product/issues/states-triage/) in Issues as your low-priority inbox—issues with state changes in the last seven days, without paging anyone. Reserve **`Alerts`** for combinations of triggers and **filters** that genuinely require immediate action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, use the  **is:for_revew** filter in Issues as your low-priority inbox without paging anyone. These are issues with state changes in the last seven days. Reserve **`Alerts`** to set conditions for issues that genuinely require immediate action.
```

Reviewer: That tab doesn't exist anymore. I'm putting up a separate branch to update docs.

### Use Filters as Your Noise Gate

**[Filters](/product/new-monitors-and-alerts/alerts/#set-filters)** are the main way to keep Alerts actionable:

- **Priority**: Scope to high-priority issues when your workflow supports it (`issue.priority:high` where applicable).
- **Tags**: Narrow to what matters—`customer_type:enterprise`, `environment:production`, region, feature flags.
- **Age**: Prefer newer issues when older noise keeps resurfacing (`The issue is newer than X days`).
- **Frequency**: Skip one-offs that often self-resolve (`Issue has happened at least {X} times`).
- **Release**: Focus post-deploy windows (`The event is from the latest release`).

Define tags in [project settings](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/organizations/:orgslug/settings/projects/:projectId/tags/) so filters stay expressive.

> ### Thresholds That Match Reality

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Customize Thresholds
```
Seems to be clearer? I'm not sure what reality you're suggesting in this section. Or maybe this needs to be fleshed out more if you have more ideas about how to "match reality" with thresholds?

Author: Yeah, reading back this is awk, I was going for something more like "Thresholds That You Actually Care About", but I like your suggestion.

> When **[Monitors](/product/new-monitors-and-alerts/monitors/)** evaluate metrics (crash-free rate, latency, volume), prefer thresholds—or **[dynamic](/product/new-monitors-and-alerts/monitors/#metric-monitor-settings)** or comparative detection—that tolerate normal drift (weekends vs weekdays, launches, growth). An Alert should usually attach to **issue outcomes** you care about from those monitors, not every intermediate blip.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When **[Monitors](/product/new-monitors-and-alerts/monitors/)** evaluate metrics (crash-free rate, latency, volume), prioritize thresholds that tolerate normal drift (weekends vs weekdays, launches, growth). Not sure what threshold to set? **[Dynamic](/product/new-monitors-and-alerts/monitors/#metric-monitor-settings)** or comparative detection will use comparative data to determine threshold. Pairing a Monitor with an Alert  helps to prioritize **issue outcomes**, instead of every intermediate blip.
```

## Routing Strategies

Getting the right notification to the right person matters as much as whether the Alert runs.

### Route by Urgency

Match the action channel to severity:

| Urgency                             | Channel               | Example                                                 |
| ----------------------------------- | --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| Critical — needs immediate response | PagerDuty or OpsGenie | Crash-free rate collapse, widespread outage-type issues |
| High — needs same-day response      | Slack `#oncall`       | New critical issue affecting enterprise-tier traffic    |
| Medium — review within 1–2 days     | Slack team channel    | Elevated error volume from a specific service           |
| Low — review when convenient        | Email or Review List  | Non-production, known recurring noise                   |

### Use Ownership Rules

> [Ownership rules](/product/issues/ownership-rules/) route issues to teams by path, URL, or tags—often simpler than encoding routing only in Alert filters. Align **Alert** filters with ownership where it helps triage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Ownership rules](/product/issues/ownership-rules/) route issues to teams by path, URL, or tags. Align **Alert** filters with ownership where it helps triage. For example, a filter you could set would be `issue is assigned to team backend`. 

**Note:** You can also automatically assign issues in [Monitors](/product/monitors-and-alerts/monitors/). 
```

```
# In Project Settings > Ownership Rules
path:src/payments/* payments-team@example.com
path:src/auth/* security-team@example.com
url:/api/v1/checkout* payments-team@example.com
tags.feature:matching-service multiplayer-team@example.com
```

End with a catch-all fallback:

```
*:platform-oncall@example.com
```

Without a fallback, unmatched issues go to all project members—a common source of fatigue.

### Alert the Team, Page the Person

Slack channels suit issues a whole squad should see. PagerDuty or OpsGenie is for wake-up urgency. A simple rule: if ignoring the Alert for four hours would cause a production incident, page someone; otherwise keep it in-channel.

## Use Case Walkthroughs

> Tables describe example **sources**, **triggers**, **filters**, and **actions**—wire them in [`sentry.io/monitors/alerts`](https://sentry.io/monitors/alerts) using your actual monitors and projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These examples outline **sources**, **triggers**, **filters**, and **actions** that would create valuable alerting for teams. You can use them as inspiration, and create your own alerts in [`sentry.io/monitors/alerts`](https://sentry.io/monitors/alerts) using your actual monitors and projects.
```

### Gaming

> A multiplayer game with real-money purchases cares most about session-ending crashes, payments, patch regressions, and matchmaking reliability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A multiplayer game with real-money purchases cares most about session-ending crashes, payments, patch regressions, and matchmaking issue surge.
```

**Starting patterns:**

| Scenario                     | Sources & signal                                  | Triggers & filters                                                                                     | Actions                       |
| ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------- |

> | Crash rate collapse          | Monitor(s) / project covering crash-free sessions | Trigger on issue creation or escalation from monitor-derived issues; restrict `environment:production` | PagerDuty `#game-oncall`      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Crash rate increase          | Monitor(s) / project covering crash-free sessions | Trigger on issue creation or escalation from monitor-derived issues; restrict `environment:production` | PagerDuty `#game-oncall`      |
```

| Payment failure              | Project or error-focused Monitor for checkout     | New issue; filter `transaction:/purchase/*` + production                                               | Slack `#payments` + PagerDuty |
| Post-patch regression        | Project or release-aware Monitor                  | New issue; filter `event.latest_release:true` + production                                             | Slack `#game-ops`             |
| Matchmaking surge            | Project                                           | Issue affects > 200 users / hour; filter `transaction:/matchmaking/*`                                  | Slack `#backend-oncall`       |

> | Region-specific server error | Project                                           | New issue; filter `tags.region:eu-west` + production                                                   | Slack `#eu-ops`               |

Reviewer: Sadly, I don't believe any of these filter attributes can be used in alerts. They can be applied to monitors, however. Perhaps this is better described as a monitors + alerts strategy, where the alert refines exactly what level of urgency of this type of monitor requires alerting?

### SaaS

Enterprise buyers expect fast response; free tiers tolerate more latency—reflect that in filters and actions.

**Starting patterns:**

| Scenario                   | Sources & signal                       | Triggers & filters                                                 | Actions                        |
| -------------------------- | -------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------ |
| Enterprise-impacting error | Project or Monitor scoped to accounts  | New issue; `tags.customer_type:enterprise` + production            | PagerDuty `#enterprise-oncall` |
| Auth failure surge         | Project                                | Affects > 50 users / hour; `transaction:/auth/*` + auth error tags | Slack `#security`              |
| Billing error              | Project                                | New issue; `transaction:/billing/*` + production                   | Slack `#billing-eng` + email   |
| API latency degradation    | Metric-oriented Monitor(s) if used     | Issues opened when latency SLO breaches—filter to API routes       | Slack `#backend`               |

> | Availability regression    | Uptime or HTTP Monitor creating issues | Trigger on failing-check issues; narrow host/route filters         | PagerDuty `#oncall`            |

Reviewer: Same here - these attributes won't be available on alerts.

### Mobile

Crash rate by platform/release and widespread-impact issues matter most on mobile.

**Starting patterns:**

| Scenario                  | Sources & signal                         | Triggers & filters                                                      | Actions                     |
| ------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------- |
| Crash rate by platform    | Monitors / projects per platform release | Issues when crash-free threshold breaches—split iOS vs Android via tags | PagerDuty `#mobile-oncall`  |
| Latest-release regression | Project                                  | New issue; `event.latest_release:true` + production                     | Slack `#mobile-releases`    |
| Broad user impact         | Project                                  | Affects > 500 users / hour; production                                  | Slack `#mobile-oncall`      |
| Hang / ANR                | Project                                  | New issue; mechanism tags (`anr`, `app_hang`) + priority                | Slack `#mobile-performance` |

> | Startup crash             | Project                                  | New issue; `transaction:app.launch` + production                        | PagerDuty `#mobile-oncall`  |

Reviewer: Tagging so it doesn't get lost. These attributes will also not apply.

**Noise reduction:** Archive non-actionable legacy-OS noise; combine with **Age** filters (`The issue is newer than 7 days`) so stale devices do not re-page after auto-resolve cycles.

> **Routing:** Tag `os.name`, `os.version`, and device class so filters distinguish outdated OS buckets from widespread regressions.

Reviewer: These tags and filters are good

| Catch regressions after deploy       | Filters on latest release + production; Slack first                                                                                   |
| Protect high-value customers         | Tag filters (`enterprise`, plan tier) + tighter triggers                                                                              |
| Reduce noise without missing signal  | Frequency floors, age caps, priority filters, environment scoping                                                                     |
| Route without duplicating logic      | [Ownership rules](/product/issues/ownership-rules/) + focused Alert filters                                                           |
| Drifting traffic or seasonal metrics | Configure **[Monitors](/product/new-monitors-and-alerts/monitors/)** so thresholds fit reality—then Alerts notify on resulting issues |

## Next Steps

- [Alerts](/product/new-monitors-and-alerts/alerts/) — sources, triggers, filters, actions ([`sentry.io/monitors/alerts`](https://sentry.io/monitors/alerts))

> - [Alerts best practices](/product/monitors-and-alerts/alerts/#alerts-best-practices)

Reviewer: I was hoping this guide would actually be linked back in that "best practices" section. It's fine to reference, but the idea was for it to be a shorthand for what's in this doc.

> - [Alert notifications](/product/notifications/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Sentry notifications](/product/notifications/)
```

- [Monitors](/product/new-monitors-and-alerts/monitors/) — define what becomes an issue before Alerts route it

> - [Ownership rules](/product/issues/ownership-rules/) — default routing for issues Alerts surface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Ownership rules](/product/issues/ownership-rules/) — default routing for Issues
```

---
title: Setting Up Alerts
sidebar_order: 25
description: "Practical guidance on Alerts -- routing to the right people while reducing noise and alert fatigue."
early_access: true
---

> <Include name="feature-available-for-user-group-early-adopter" />

Author: This is incorrect, the include file exists and renders as expected.

Create and manage Alerts from [`sentry.io/monitors/alerts`](https://sentry.io/monitors/alerts). For UI walkthroughs and concepts, read **[Creating an Alert](/product/monitors-and-alerts/alerts/#creating-an-alert)**, [examples](/product/monitors-and-alerts/alerts/#some-examples-of-when-you-could-use-an-alert), and how **[Notifications](/product/monitors-and-alerts/alerts/#notifications)** relate to alert-driven vs general product notifications.

**Tip:** Pair Alerts with **[Monitors](/product/monitors-and-alerts/monitors/)** so issues are opened only when something actually crosses your thresholds—then Alerts decide who hears about those issues.

## Getting More Signal With Less Noise

The most common mistake is alerting too much. Every additional notification that doesn't require action trains your team to ignore alerts.

### Don't Alert on Every State Change

Your first instinct might be to notify whenever an issue changes state: new issues, regressions, escalations, and so on. In practice, that generates too many notifications. Regressions are especially common because Sentry auto-resolves issues after 14 days of silence, so many issues resurface repeatedly.

> Instead, use the  **is:for_revew** filter in Issues as your low-priority inbox without paging anyone. These are issues with state changes in the last seven days. Reserve **`Alerts`** to set conditions for issues that genuinely require immediate action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, use the  **is:for_review** filter in Issues as your low-priority inbox without paging anyone. These are issues with state changes in the last seven days. Reserve **`Alerts`** to set conditions for issues that genuinely require immediate action.
```

### Use Filters as Your Noise Gate

**[Filters](/product/monitors-and-alerts/alerts/#set-filters)** are the main way to keep Alerts actionable:

- **Priority**: Scope to high-priority issues when your workflow supports it (`issue.priority:high` where applicable).

> - **Tags**: Narrow to what matters—`customer_type:enterprise`, `environment:production`, region, feature flags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Event Attributes/Tagged Events: Use out of the box attributes like `error.handled/unhandled`, exception.type`, and `environment`, `user.*` to narrow to what matters. Custom tags like `customer_type`, `region`, or `feature_flag` make the Alerts even more relevant to your team's priorities.
```

I think we should call out these categories of filters by name, as they and their underlying attributes, feel a bit buried in the UI right now.

- **Age**: Prefer newer issues when older noise keeps resurfacing (`The issue is newer than X days`).
- **Frequency**: Skip one-offs that often self-resolve (`Issue has happened at least {X} times`).
- **Release**: Focus post-deploy windows (`The event is from the latest release`).

Define tags in [project settings](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/organizations/:orgslug/settings/projects/:projectId/tags/) so filters stay expressive.

### Customize Thresholds

> When **[Monitors](/product/monitors-and-alerts/monitors/)** evaluate metrics (crash-free rate, latency, volume), prefer thresholds—or **[dynamic](/product/monitors-and-alerts/monitors/#metric-monitor-settings)** or comparative detection—that tolerate normal drift (weekends vs weekdays, launches, growth). An Alert should usually attach to **issue outcomes** you care about from those monitors, not every intermediate blip.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When **[Monitors](/product/monitors-and-alerts/monitors/)** evaluate metrics (crash-free rate, latency, volume), use thresholds— or **[dynamic](/product/monitors-and-alerts/monitors/#metric-monitor-settings)** or comparative detection— that tolerate normal drift (weekends vs weekdays, launches, growth). An Alert should usually attach to **issue outcomes** you care about from those monitors, not every intermediate blip.
```

Still was reading weird. I think this is better.

| ---------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| Crash rate collapse          | Monitor(s) scoped to crash-free sessions                             | New issue; `environment:production`                             | PagerDuty `#game-oncall`      |
| Payment failure              | Monitor or project scoped to checkout/purchase errors                | New issue; `environment:production`                             | Slack `#payments` + PagerDuty |
| Post-patch regression        | Monitor or project scoped to the latest release                      | New issue; `environment:production`; issue is newer than 1 day  | Slack `#game-ops`             |
| Matchmaking surge            | Monitor or project scoped to matchmaking services                    | Affects > 200 users / hour; `environment:production`            | Slack `#backend-oncall`       |

> | Region-specific server error | Project with events tagged `region:eu-west` by your backend         | New issue; tag matches `region` equals `eu-west`; production    | Slack `#eu-ops`               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Scenario                     | Sources & signal                                          | Alert filters                                                                                                                              | Actions                       |
| ---------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------- |
| Unhandled crash              | Monitor(s) scoped to crash-free sessions                  | Event attribute `error.unhandled` equals `true`; `environment:production`                                                                  | PagerDuty `#game-oncall`      |
| Payment failure              | Monitor or project scoped to checkout/purchase errors     | Event attribute `http.url` contains `/purchase`; event attribute `http.status_code` starts with `5`; `environment:production`              | Slack `#payments` + PagerDuty |
| Post-patch regression        | Monitor or project                                        | Filter "The event is from the latest release"; event attribute `error.handled` equals `false`; issue is newer than 1 day                   | Slack `#game-ops`             |
| Ranked matchmaking surge     | Monitor or project scoped to matchmaking services         | Tagged Event `game_mode` equals `ranked`; affects > 200 users / hour; `environment:production`                                                      | Slack `#backend-oncall`       |
| Region-specific server error | Project                                                   | Tagged Event `region` equals `eu-west`; `environment:production`                                                                                    | Slack `#eu-ops`               |
| Main-thread crash            | Project                                                   | Event attributes (ALL): `error.unhandled` equals `true`, `error.main_thread` equals `true`; `environment:production`                       | PagerDuty `#game-oncall`      |
```

Changed: 
- Every row now uses a variety of filter examples.
- Added error.unhandled to the crash row — filters out handled exceptions in try/catch blocks.
- Payment row uses http.url + http.status_code (OOTB event attributes) to make the "scoped to checkout errors" accessible even without custom tags.
- Post-patch row now uses the "The event is from the latest release" built-in filter.
- Matchmaking row uses the custom tag game_mode — the routing paragraph below the table already suggests tagging events with game_mode, so this puts that advice into the example
- Region row uses a custom tag region set by the backend, which is the realistic approach for server-side region tagging.
- Added a "Main-thread crash" row that demonstrates combining multiple event attributes with ALL logic.

Reviewer: @souredoutlook thoughts on this type of example?

| -------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| Enterprise-impacting error | Project with events tagged `customer_type:enterprise` by your backend        | New issue; tag matches `customer_type` equals `enterprise`; production | PagerDuty `#enterprise-oncall` |
| Auth failure surge         | Monitor or project scoped to auth services                                   | Affects > 50 users / hour; `environment:production`                    | Slack `#security`              |
| Billing error              | Monitor or project scoped to billing services                                | New issue; `environment:production`                                    | Slack `#billing-eng` + email   |
| API latency degradation    | Monitor scoped to API SLO — issues open when thresholds breach               | New issue; `environment:production`                                    | Slack `#backend`               |

> | Availability regression    | Uptime or HTTP Monitor — issues open on failing checks                       | New issue; `environment:production`                                    | PagerDuty `#oncall`            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Scenario                   | Sources & signal                                               | Alert filters                                                                                                                                        | Actions                        |
| -------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| Enterprise unhandled error | Project                                                        | Tagged Event `customer_type` equals `enterprise`; Event Attribute `error.unhandled` equals `true`; `environment:production`                                    | PagerDuty `#enterprise-oncall` |
| Auth failure by provider   | Monitor or project scoped to auth services                     | Event Attribute `http.url` contains `/auth`; tag `auth_provider` equals `saml`; `environment:production`                                              | Slack `#security`              |
| Billing exception          | Monitor or project scoped to billing services                  | Event Attribute `exception.type` contains `PaymentError`; Tagged Event `plan_tier` is in `enterprise,business`; `environment:production`                       | Slack `#billing-eng` + email   |
| API latency degradation    | Monitor scoped to API SLO — issues open when thresholds breach | `environment:production`                                                                                                                              | Slack `#backend`               |
| Availability regression    | Uptime or HTTP Monitor — issues open on failing checks         | `environment:production`                                                                                                                              | PagerDuty `#oncall`            |
| VIP user error             | Project                                                        | Event Attribute `user.email` is in `cto@bigcorp.com, eng@bigcorp.com`; `environment:production`                                                        | Slack `#enterprise-support`    |
```
Changed: 
- Enterprise row now combines a custom tag (customer_type) with an OOTB event attribute (error.unhandled) — a handled exception in a try/catch at an enterprise customer isn't page-worthy; an unhandled one is.
- Auth row now uses http.url (OOTB attribute) + custom tag auth_provider equals saml instead of "scoped to auth services". This demonstrates combining an event attribute with a business-context tag, helping to show that an SSO/SAML outage is a different severity than a password-login bug.
- Billing row now uses exception.type (OOTB attribute) to filter by exception class, combined with tag plan_tier is in enterprise,business. This demonstrates ALL logic combining OOTB + custom tag, and shows the is in operator with comma-separated values.
- Added a VIP user row using the user.email event attribute with the is in operator.

Reviewer: Also looking for thoughts on this example @souredoutlook

| ------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------- |
| Crash rate by platform    | Monitors scoped per platform (iOS / Android) — issues open on threshold breach | New issue; `environment:production`                                          | PagerDuty `#mobile-oncall`  |
| Latest-release regression | Monitor or project scoped to the latest release                                | New issue; `environment:production`; issue is newer than 1 day               | Slack `#mobile-releases`    |
| Broad user impact         | Project                                                                        | Affects > 500 users / hour; `environment:production`                         | Slack `#mobile-oncall`      |
| Hang / ANR                | Project with events tagged `mechanism:anr` or `mechanism:app_hang`             | New issue; tag matches `mechanism` equals `anr` or `app_hang`; production    | Slack `#mobile-performance` |

> | Startup crash             | Monitor or project scoped to app launch / startup                              | New issue; `environment:production`                                          | PagerDuty `#mobile-oncall`  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Scenario                  | Sources & signal                                            | Alert filters                                                                                                                                    | Actions                     |
| ------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------- |
| Crash rate by platform    | Monitors scoped per platform (iOS / Android)                | Event Attribute `error.unhandled` equals `true`; `environment:production`                                                                        | PagerDuty `#mobile-oncall`  |
| Latest-release regression | Monitor or project                                          | Filter "The event is from the latest release"; Event Attribute `error.handled` equals `false`; issue is newer than 1 day                         | Slack `#mobile-releases`    |
| Broad user impact         | Project                                                     | Event Attribute `error.unhandled` equals `true`; affects > 500 users / hour; `environment:production`                                            | Slack `#mobile-oncall`      |
| Hang / ANR                | Project                                                     | Event Attribute `error.mechanism` equals `anr` or `app_hang`; Tagged Event `screen_name` equals `checkout`; `environment:production`                      | Slack `#mobile-performance` |
| Startup crash             | Monitor or project scoped to app launch                     | Event Attribute `app.in_foreground` equals `true`; Event Attribute `error.unhandled` equals `true`; `environment:production`                     | PagerDuty `#mobile-oncall`  |
| Old-version noise filter  | Project                                                     | Tagged Event `os.name` equals `iOS`; tag `release` starts with `3.`; Event Attribute `error.unhandled` equals `true`; `environment:production`            | Slack `#mobile-platform`    |
```
Changed: 
- ANR row uses OOTB event attribute error.mechanism instead of a tag filter. Added tag screen_name equals checkout to demonstrate a common mobile instrumentation pattern: ANRs on the checkout screen are urgent, ANRs on the about page are not.
- Latest-release row uses the "The event is from the latest release" built-in filter.
- Startup crash row uses app.in_foreground (OOTB attribute) to show a startup crash while the app is in the foreground is user-facing.
- Replaced the "Low-end device crash" row with an "Old-version noise filter" row. This uses auto-promoted (OOTB) tags os.name and release with the starts with operator to scope crashes to a specific platform and major version. This is a realistic mobile scenario and demonstrates that Sentry auto-promotes useful context into tags.
- Added error.unhandled to crash and broad-impact rows.

Reviewer: @souredoutlook one more for your review.

---
title: Setting Up Alerts
sidebar_order: 25
description: "Practical guidance on building an alerting strategy that routes to the right people while reducing noise and alert fatigue."
---

A misconfigured alert strategy creates noise; too many notifications leads to alert fatigue, the wrong people get paged, and critical issues eventually get ignored.

This guide covers common alerting strategies, how to get more signal with less noise, and three real-world use case walkthroughs.

## Alert Types

Sentry has three alert types. Each serves a different purpose:

| Type | Triggered By | Best For |
| ---- | ------------ | -------- |
| [Issue alert](/product/alerts/alert-types/#issue-alerts) | An individual issue meeting specified criteria | New errors, regressions, issues affecting specific users or tags |
| [Metric alert](/product/alerts/alert-types/#metric-alerts) | A project-level metric crossing a threshold | Crash rates, error rates, transaction volume, p95 latency |
| [Uptime alert](/product/alerts/alert-types/#uptime-alerts) | HTTP check failing | Endpoint availability |

> Most teams start with issue alerts, then add metric alerts for high-level health signals and/or uptime monitoring for critical endpoints.

Reviewer: I don't think we care about this distinction anymore. If you navigate through the new UX (you can find it in sentry.sentry or demo.sentry), you'll see that it's pretty "type" agnostic. You can definitely set up alerts based on issue type or category, and that's also really useful, and probably should be mentioned somewhere, but this reads like it's based on the old paradigm. Check it out https://demo.sentry.io/monitors/alerts/?project=-1&statsPeriod=7d

Instead, use the [**For Review** tab](/product/issues/states-triage/) in Issues as your low-priority inbox. It shows issues with state changes in the last seven days, with no alert required. Reserve real-time alerts for issues that genuinely require immediate action.

### Filter Before You Alert

Every issue alert has an "if" condition: a filter that further narrows when the alert fires. These are your primary noise-reduction tools:

- **Priority filter**: Add `issue.priority:high` to only fire on high-priority issues. This is the single most effective noise reducer for most teams.
- **Tag filters**: Scope alerts to what matters, like `customer_type:enterprise` or `environment:production`. Create your own tag filters in [project settings](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/organizations/:orgslug/settings/projects/:projectId/tags/).
- **Age filter**: Use `The issue is newer than X days` to avoid repeated alerts on old, known issues.
- **Frequency floor**: Use `Issue has happened at least {X} times` to filter one-offs that may resolve themselves.

> - **Latest release only**: Use `The event is from the latest release` to focus post-deploy monitoring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Latest release only**: Use `The event is from the latest release` to focus post-deploy monitoring. Learn about setting up [releases](https://docs.sentry.io/product/releases/)
```

### Use Change Alerts for Fluctuating Metrics

Fixed thresholds work when you know what "bad" looks like. But some metrics are seasonal, like error counts are naturally lower on weekends and higher during launches. A fixed threshold requires constant manual adjustment.

Use **change alerts** when:
- Traffic patterns vary significantly (daily, weekly, by region)
- You're growing fast and thresholds go stale quickly
- You don't yet know what "normal" looks like for a new feature

A change alert fires when a metric is X% higher than the same window from one week ago — no manual tuning needed as baseline traffic grows.

Use **fixed thresholds** when you have a clear definition of "bad":
- Crash-free session rate drops below 99%
- Any enterprise customer is affected by an error
- Response time for `/checkout` exceeds 500ms

> Most teams use both: fixed thresholds for absolute failure conditions and change alerts for relative degradations.

Reviewer: Thresholds are much more of a thing on monitors now. There are a few "change" attributes still available, but this is not quite the way to talk about that kind of additional thresholding for alerting.
